Muse Spark 1.3 now available on AI Gateway - Vercel Skip to content Copy Wordmark Copy Logo Download Brand Assets Brand Guidelines Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ask AI Dashboard Products Agent Stack AI SDK AI Gateway Sandbox Passport Connect eve Core Platform Security Content Delivery Fluid Compute Observability Workflows CI/CD Tools Next.js Vercel Agent Vercel Plugin Open Source Domains ↗ v0 ↗ Resources Learn Docs About Blog Changelog Knowledge Base Build AI Apps Web Apps Marketing Sites Platforms Commerce Explore Customers Marketplace Partner Finder AWS Community ↗ Enterprise Pricing Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Muse Spark 1.3 now available on AI Gateway Zachary Chen , Jerilyn Zheng Blog Changelog 2 Sep 2026 1 min read Copy Muse Spark 1.3 from Meta is now available on AI Gateway, in both the standard and contributor pricing tiers. This model improves on prior Muse Spark models at agent work and coding, with a 1M token context window and text, image, and PDF input. On coding it takes fewer turns and writes less filler than the previous release. To use Muse Spark 1.3, set model to meta/muse-spark-1.3 : API API Claude Code Codex Hermes Chat Completions API API Claude Code Claude Code Codex Codex Hermes Hermes Chat Completions Chat Completions 1 import { streamText } from 'ai' ; 2 3 const result = streamText ( { 4 model : 'meta/muse-spark-1.3' , 5 prompt : 'Migrate this service off the deprecated API.' , 6 } ) ; Copy for agent View model details ↗ Copy link to heading Contributor tier Muse Spark 1.3 Contributor is a pricing tier on the same model rather than a separate one, with the same weights, capabilities, and context window. The difference is that Meta uses the inputs and outputs sent to this tier to train and improve its models, and pricing is lower in exchange. Model Input Output Cached input meta/muse-spark-1.3 $1.25 $4.25 $0.15 meta/muse-spark-1.3-contributor $0.10 $0.20 $0.002 Rates are per million tokens and unchanged from Muse Spark 1.2 on both tiers. To use it in a coding agent, see the coding agents guide , then run vercel ai-gateway coding-agents setup to connect Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, and more, then select meta/muse-spark-1.3 in the agent. Try Muse Spark 1.3 in the model playground . You can view all language models available on AI Gateway. Loading status… Select a display theme: system light dark