Intelligent Model Routing | Replit Log in Sign up Blog News Intelligent Model Routing on Replit Replit now picks the best model for every task, automatically. Published: Aug 26, 2026 Updated: Aug 27, 2026 The Replit Team You want to bring an idea to life, not compare models. But the best model for the task can change week to week, project to project, task to task. Choosing the right one adds another decision point between your idea and the thing you’re making. Starting today, Intelligent Model Routing is available to everyone on Replit. As each task evolves, we match it with the model best suited to complete it - balancing quality, speed, and cost behind the scenes. In our testing, Intelligent Model Routing delivered the same output quality at 65% lower cost than the previous version of Max Mode. Free Mode lets you build more for less. Intelligent Model Routing gives you power when the task demands it and efficiency when it doesn’t. This is accessible intelligence that puts every user at the apex of speed, quality and cost . Replit gets you outcomes. You stay in control. Our deep expertise and access to a broad range of AI models enables us to test how they perform on real tasks. We use those results to understand which models are best suited to different kinds of work, then apply that understanding to every task. Intelligent Model Routing is designed to make creation accessible, but this doesn’t mean the experience gets less flexible or transparent. All users will start in Free Mode, and will be notified when their work escalates to higher-powered modes that can incur usage costs. Users can always over-ride this, and choose to remain in Free Mode. Core & Pro users can also still manually select models if they want. Intelligent Model Routing for Enterprises Enterprise teams can use Intelligent Model Routing while maintaining control over which models are available to their users. Administrators can define the approved model set for each workspace based on company policy. Replit then automatically chooses the model best suited to each task from that approved set. Users can focus on how AI can augment their work, instead of model management. Administrators can give their teams access to AI while retaining control over the models they use. This is accessible intelligence Our goal is simple: making intelligence accessible to everyone. Intelligent Model Routing brings us another step closer, by handling more complexity behind the scenes. Start creating with Intelligent Model Routing today on replit.com . More Aug 18, 2026 Replit Introduces Free Mode to Expand What is Possible with AI With OpenAI, Replit now helps you accomplish even more, every day. Jun 10, 2026 Replit | Databricks: Where fast app building meets granular data governance Today, we're excited to announce two significant updates to the Replit and Databricks integration we launched in February: the user-to-machine (U2M) connector feature is now live, and the integration is now open for public preview sign-up.

ICYMI: Our February announcement introduced our joint integration for enterprise teams: the ability to build applications in Replit and deploy them directly into Databricks with the inherent governance, security, and compliance controls your organization already has in place, without any extra overhead. That initial release was powered by a machine-to-machine (M2M) connector and today, the addition of user-to-machine (U2M) takes it a level further, unlocking a new class of applications that simply weren't possible before.

Sensitive data has always been the hardest problem to solve in enterprise app development. Our newest U2M is how we're solving it. After a Replit application is built and deployed, Databricks is able to govern what each user can access based on Unity Catalog permissions on an individual user level without any separate builds or permission workarounds. This ensures that no users are granted access to data they wouldn’t normally be able to access.

From M2M to U2M

While M2M is powerful for company-wide tools with publicly sharable information, one of the drawbacks is that every user is granted access to the same view of the data. Mar 11, 2026 The Future is Actually Very Human Replit raises $400 million at a $9 billion valuation