Vercel CLI expands commands for DNS, domains, and projects - Vercel Skip to content Copy Wordmark Copy Logo Download Brand Assets Brand Guidelines Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ask AI Dashboard Products Agent Stack AI SDK AI Gateway Sandbox Passport Connect eve Core Platform Security Content Delivery Fluid Compute Observability Workflows CI/CD Tools Next.js Vercel Agent Vercel Plugin Open Source Domains ↗ v0 ↗ Resources Learn Docs About Blog Changelog Knowledge Base Build AI Apps Web Apps Marketing Sites Platforms Commerce Explore Customers Marketplace Partner Finder AWS Community ↗ Enterprise Pricing Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Vercel CLI expands commands for DNS, domains, and projects David Lee , Melkey Moksyakov Blog Changelog 28 Aug 2026 1 min read Copy The Vercel CLI now provides dedicated commands for managing DNS records, domains, and projects. This brings more of the functionality available through the Vercel dashboard and API to the terminal, where it can be used interactively, in scripts, or by agents. Copy link to heading Inspect and update DNS records Retrieve the complete configuration for a DNS record or update it in place using its record ID. vercel dns inspect rec_123 vercel dns update rec_123 \ --value 76.76 .21.21 \ --ttl 300 vercel dns update supports changes to the record name, type, value, TTL, MX priority, and comment. SRV records can also be updated using their priority, weight, port, and target fields. Copy link to heading Renew domains bought on Vercel Renew a domain on demand or control whether it renews automatically. vercel domains renew example.com vercel domains auto-renew example.com on vercel domains auto-renew example.com off The renewal command displays the current renewal price and asks for confirmation before completing the purchase. Copy link to heading Control project state and observability Pause or resume a project and configure its observability features directly from the CLI. Web Analytics and Speed Insights could already be enabled from the CLI; they can now be disabled as well. vercel project pause vercel project resume vercel project observability enable vercel project observability disable vercel project web-analytics disable vercel project speed-insights disable Copy link to heading Add and remove project members Add a project member with a specific role or remove an existing member. vercel project members add my-project user@example.com \ --role developer vercel project members remove my-project user@example.com All of the new commands support structured JSON output for scripts and agents. Billable or destructive actions require explicit confirmation. Update to version 59.6.2 (or later) of the Vercel CLI to use the new commands: npm i -g vercel@latest Learn more in the Vercel CLI documentation . Loading status… Select a display theme: system light dark