Use your voice to get more done in Gmail, Docs, and Keep Sep 03, 2026 | x.com Facebook LinkedIn Mail Copy link Three new voice-activated features will change the way you use Google Workspace products. Speak naturally to draft documents, locate important information from your inbox, and capture fleeting thoughts quickly. Yulie Kwon Kim VP, Product, Google Workspace Share x.com Facebook LinkedIn Mail Copy link Your browser does not support the audio element. Listen to article [[duration]] minutes This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental Voice Speed Voice Speed 0.75X 1X 1.5X 2X Read AI-generated summary You can now use your voice to manage tasks in Gmail, Docs, and Keep through the new Gemini 3.5 Live integration. Use conversational commands to search your inbox, draft documents, or turn spoken thoughts into organized notes. These features are rolling out this week for specific Google Workspace subscribers and business customers. Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental. "Use your voice to get more done" introduces new Gemini features for Google Workspace. Use Gmail Live to find specific inbox details just by asking simple questions. Docs Live acts as a hands-free partner to help you draft and structure documents. Keep Live turns your spoken brain dumps into organized, actionable notes automatically. These conversational tools are rolling out now for select Google Workspace subscribers. Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental. Google is adding its new AI voice model to Gmail, Docs, and Keep. You can now just talk to your apps to find emails, write documents, or organize your notes. It’s like having a personal assistant that listens to your ideas and does the typing for you. These features make getting your work done much faster and easier. Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental. Explore other styles: General summary Bullet points Basic explainer As technology evolves, so does the way we get things done. That’s why we’re bringing Gemini Audio models to your favorite Workspace products to help you tackle daily tasks using just your voice. We first previewed Gemini Audio models in Workspace at I/O , and today we're officially launching new capabilities in Gmail, Docs, and Keep. Whether searching your inbox, organizing your thoughts, or brainstorming, the new capabilities in Gmail, Docs, and Keep let you do it all conversationally. Here’s a look at how you can engage in real-time conversation across Google Workspace to make your day-to-day easier than ever. Gmail Live: Conversational search for your inbox When you’re on the go, you don't have time to dig through endless threads to find details buried in your inbox quickly. With Gmail Live, you can skip the manual search entirely. Use conversational search to find information just by asking things like, "What’s my flight's gate number?" or "What’s going on at my kid’s school this week?" and Gmail Live will scan your inbox and give you answers quickly. Docs Live: Your hands-free thought partner Think through an idea — and write it out — with Docs Live. Instead of staring at a blank page, you can engage in real-time conversation with Docs Live to build structured, context-aware documents on the fly. Docs Live acts as your thought partner and co-writer to help you get to a first draft faster using your voice. Just talk, and Docs Live handles the heavy lifting: organizing your thoughts, structuring your document, and — with your permission — pulling relevant details directly from your Gmail, Drive, Chat, and the broader web. Whether you’re rambling or brainstorming, Docs Live helps you outline and refine your tone. Keep Live: Turn brain dumps into organized notes Keep is usually used to note a quick idea or something that crosses your mind before you forget it. Now, you can talk to Keep Live to capture, structure, and refine your ideas into organized, actionable notes. Go ahead and brain dump. Keep's new voice feature understands your stream of consciousness and processes it in the background, turning your thoughts into structured lists and notes without you having to type a single word. These new conversational features are rolling out this week. They are available in Gmail and Keep for Google AI Plus, Pro, and Ultra subscribers , and in Docs for Pro and Ultra subscribers. All of these features are coming soon for Google Workspace business customers. Get the latest news from Google in your inbox Sign up for our newsletters with product updates, event information, special offers, and more. Done. Just one step more. Check your inbox to confirm your subscription. You can also subscribe with a different email address . Your information will be used in accordance with Google's privacy policy. You may opt out at any time. Posted in: