Figure and Nscale Sign Strategic Partnership For Up to 100,000 GPUs on the NVIDIA Vera Rubin Platform Figure and Nscale Sign Strategic Partnership For Up to 100,000 GPUs on the NVIDIA Vera Rubin Platform September 03, 2026 Today we are announcing a partnership with Nscale to deploy the NVIDIA Vera Rubin platform for up to 100,000 GPUs targeted for initial deployment starting the second half of 2027 in Barstow, Texas. This deal represents an initial commitment of $3.5 billion of compute with intent to scale to over $6 billion. As part of the agreement, Nscale is also making a strategic investment in Figure, and the parties will also explore the potential to scale Nscale’s supply chain with humanoids. Figure is entering a phase where we are largely bound by data and compute needed to train Helix. Last week, we announced Index , Figure’s effort to build the most diverse humanoid training dataset ever assembled, which is generating 35 minutes of data every second. But data alone cannot solve this problem. Scaling physical intelligence will require an immense amount of compute. This partnership with Nscale provides the compute runway needed to train the next generation of AI models to solve general robotics. “Our AI model, Helix, becomes more capable the same way every learned system does: with more data and compute. Today we're excited to partner with Nscale to bring the compute required to make this vision a reality.” said Brett Adcock, Founder and CEO, Figure. “Humanoid robots extend physical AI into the world designed for people—opening a major new industry,” said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA. “Nscale and Figure have activated the robotics flywheel: training Figure’s models on NVIDIA Vera Rubin through Nscale’s AI cloud, validating them in NVIDIA Isaac Sim, and deploying them on NVIDIA GPUs in Figure’s robots. This is the physical AI flywheel that will accelerate the path from models to robots in the world.” "We’re excited to partner with Figure as physical intelligence becomes AI's next frontier,” said Josh Payne, CEO and Founder of Nscale. “We've seen incredible growth with inference and agentic AI and Figure is pushing the boundaries of AI even further. We're proud to be enabling the future of AI robotics together." Through this partnership, Figure is securing access to reliable compute to bring humanoid robots into every home in the world. What’s on your mind? We’ll get back to you as soon as possible. First Name * Last Name * Email * Subject * Message * Submit This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.