AMD ROCm 10: Bringing ROCm.AI’s AI-Native Developer Experiences to AMD Platforms - AMD Newsroom Share ↓ Download Terms Download image × Please read through and acknowledge the Terms & Conditions before downloading. By downloading and incorporating the AMD Trademarks or AMD Logos and/or images provided herein (collectively, the
    “AMD Mark(s)”), you are accepting the Terms and Conditions and committing you and your company to the
    Terms and Conditions. Once the Terms and Conditions are accepted, AMD uses Cookies to enable the user to bypass this screen when downloading AMD brand assets in the future. The AMD Marks are owned exclusively by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"), protected under relevant
    trademark and copyright laws around the world, and are provided on an “as is” basis without warranty of
    any kind, express or implied, for use subject to the terms of this license (“License”). AMD hereby
    grants you ("Licensee" or “You” or “Your”) limited permission to use the AMD
    Mark(s) solely in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, and sale of Licensee products that include
    an AMD CPU, GPU, APU, or FPGA (each an “AMD Processor”) and in accordance with the AMD Corporate and
    Product Branding Guidelines, which may be modified by AMD from time to time. You agree to ensure that You are in
    possession of the latest, updated version. This grant does not extend to use of AMD Mark(s) on Licensee product packaging or use of AMD Mark(s) on any goods
    that do not contain an AMD Processor. AMD shall remain the exclusive owner of all rights in the AMD Mark(s), and
    this License does not grant any other rights with respect to AMD’s Mark(s) trademarks or copyright. You agree
    that You will not, nor will you help others, contest, attack, or dispute AMD’s rights in the AMD Mark(s). The
    AMD Mark(s) must be used only in a positive manner and shall not be used in any way that may, in AMD’s sole
    judgement, disparage AMD’s reputation. You agree not to use the AMD Mark(s) in a manner to suggest AMD’s endorsement or sponsorship of your goods or
    services, or in any way that may create confusion as to the source of the goods, and Licensee’s company name,
    logo or product name shall appear on any products or related materials where an AMD Mark(s) is used. This license
    may be terminated by AMD at any time, and failure to comply with these terms will result in automatic termination of
    this License. Sometimes AMD acquires the right(s) to certain image(s) and includes such image(s) within AMD system(s)
    (“Licensed Images”). You agree to refrain from using Licensed Images for any reason outside of those
    directly related to your reason for accessing AMD system(s) contemplated under these Terms and Conditions.
    Additionally, you agree to comply with all limitation(s) on Licensed Images that are communicated to you by AMD,
    including but not limited to limitation(s) conveyed to you via notes in a file containing the Licensed Images. If You encounter any non-public information related to AMD (“Confidential Information”) while accessing
    AMD system(s), You agree to (a) reasonably protect and not disclose any Confidential Information to any third
    party(ies) without AMD’s written permission; and (b) refrain from using Confidential Information in ways not
    relating to your access of AMD system(s). If it is determined by AMD – in its sole opinion - that You have violated these Terms and Conditions or have
    otherwise misused Confidential Information, Your access to AMD system(s) may be revoked immediately and without
    notice. If you have any questions regarding the terms and conditions of this Agreement, please contact the AMD Law
    Department at amd.trademarks@amd.com . I have read and agree to the AMD Media Library Terms & Conditions . You must accept these terms before downloading assets. Cancel Download Three things to know: ROCm.AI is now generally available with AMD ROCm™ 10 software, bringing an AI-driven development platform to help developers build, run and optimize AI workloads. ROCm.AI combines ROCm Hyperloom, AMD Skills and ROCm CLI, bringing AMD expertise, simpler workflows and agentic optimization into the tools developers already use. ROCm 10 advances the broader ROCm software stack, with a more modular ROCm Core SDK and enhancements across libraries, compilers, frameworks, model support, performance and hardware platforms. Today, AMD released AMD ROCm™ 10, marking 10 years of the AMD software stack and making ROCm.AI generally available for users. First introduced at Advancing AI 2026 , ROCm.AI is an AI-native software experience designed to accelerate development velocity and performance optimization on AMD hardware. ROCm.AI brings together three core developer experiences: AMD Skills, the ROCm CLI and AMD Hyperloom. Together, they introduce AMD expertise and agentic workflows into the tools developers already use, enabling innovation to evolve at the pace of AI. Through AI-driven optimization of kernels, memory management and scheduling, a system configured with ROCm.AI delivers an average 3.3x inference improvement and 2.4x training improvement over ROCm™ 7 on the same hardware. 1 2 A New Developer Experience for AI on AMD ROCm.AI supports developers across three parts of the AI development process: optimizing inference performance, building with AMD expertise and running AI workloads. Optimize End-to-End Inference with AMD ROCm Hyperloom ROCm Hyperloom, a key component of ROCm.AI, is an autonomous agentic system for optimizing end-to-end inference workloads across host code and GPU kernels. Hyperloom profiles workloads, identifies bottlenecks, explores optimization options, implements targeted changes, benchmarks the results, and validates performance and correctness. ↓ Download Hyperloom is an autonomous agentic system for optimizing end-to-end inference workloads. With ROCm 10, Hyperloom expands support across AMD Instinct™ GPUs, with support for vLLM and SGLang. Developers can target optimizations across HIP, Triton and FlyDSL, with reports describing proposed code changes and measured or expected performance improvements. Hyperloom is available through standalone workflows and AMD Skills, giving developers multiple ways to incorporate agentic optimization into their development process. Build with AMD Expertise AMD Skills brings curated AMD knowledge and validated workflows into supported AI coding agents like Claude Code, Cursor and Codex, giving developers AMD-specific guidance within the tools they already use. With ROCm 10, the AMD Skills catalog expands across three areas: Client-native workflows for local AI and application integration. Cross-stack workflows for diagnostics, routing, replay analysis and optimization. Server-native workflows for AMD Instinct GPUs and AMD EPYC™ processors, including serving, profiling and performance analysis. ↓ Download AMD Skills gives developers AMD-specific guidance within the tools they already use. The skills previewed at Advancing AI are now available through the Claude Code, Codex and Cursor marketplaces, as well as through the open catalog on GitHub . Each shipped skill passes structural and behavioral testing before release to help provide consistent, reliable workflows. Run with Simpler Workflows The ROCm CLI, a Technology Preview component of ROCm.AI, provides a stable, unified command-line interface for setting up, managing and operating AI workloads on AMD hardware. Developers can use the same workflows manually, through an AI coding agent or in continuous integration (CI) environments. From a single interface, they can inspect systems, install and manage ROCm environments, serve models, run diagnostics, update components, and control runtimes. ↓ Download ROCm CLI is a unified command-line interface for AI workloads on AMD hardware. The CLI is available on Windows as well as Linux as a prebuilt binary and does not require an existing ROCm installation. It delivers managed ROCm environments, supports multiple side-by-side runtimes including runtime activation and rollback, as well as integrated model serving and engine management. Adapters today support Lemonade on select AMD client systems and vLLM for AMD Instinct GPU serving. The ROCm Console (formerly “dash”), included with the CLI, provides a real-time view of system status and workload activity. Developers can monitor ROCm runtime health, model serving, GPU utilization and benchmark telemetry, including metrics such as high bandwidth memory (HBM) usage, power consumption and tokens per watt on supported AMD Instinct systems. Available as a Technology Preview, ROCm CLI provides a version-agnostic experience across ROCm releases, beginning with ROCm 7.13 software, with ROCm 10 official support coming soon. Building on the ROCm 10 Software Stack These developer experiences build on the broader ROCm 10 software stack that includes the ROCm Core SDK, providing a more modular foundation for building and running AI workloads across AMD platforms. ROCm 10 also includes updates to libraries, compilers, frameworks, tools, model support, performance and hardware platforms. For a deeper look at the ROCm Core SDK, including libraries, compilers, tools, framework and model support, performance improvements and platform updates, read the full ROCm 10 technical deep dive . (MI350-81) Testing by AMD Performance Labs as of July 7, 2026, measuring the inference performance in tokens per second (TPS) of a system configured with an AMD Instinct MI355x 8x GPU platform and AMD ROCm 7.0 software vs a similarly configured system using a preview version of AMD ROCm.ai (ROCm 7.2.2 with optimizations such as Optimized Kernels, Parallelism and Scheduling) running GLM-5, Kimi-K2.5, and DeepSeekk-R1-0528 models. Stated performance uplift is expressed as a combined average TPS over across the (3) models tested. Hardware Configuration Supermicro AS -4126GS-NMR-LCC (board H14DSG-OD) 8x AMD Instinct MI355X. BIOS AMI v1.4a (2025-04-16), GPU firmware SMC 04.86.11.02, TA RAS 27.69.00.10, TA XGMI 32.00.00.20, RLC43, MEC36, SDMA12, Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS, kernel 5.15.0-70-generic, amdgpu driver 6.16.6, HOST ROCm 7.1.0 Software Configuration(s) GLM-5 ROCm Docker Image: rocm/sgl-dev:v0.5.8.post1-rocm700-mi35x-20260219 PYTorch Version 2.8.0, SGLang v0.5.8 Kimi ROCm Docker Image: vllm/vllm-openai-rocm:v0.16.0, vLLM version 0.16.0 DeepSeek-R1 Docker Image: rocm/7.0:...sgl-dev-v0.5.2-rocm7.0-mi35x-20250915, SGLang version V0.5.13 vs GLM-5 ROCm Docker Image: rocm/atom:rocm7.2.2_ubuntu24.04_py3.12_pytorch_release_2.10.0_ atom0.1.2.post , ATOM v0.1.2.post Kimi ROCm Docker Image: vllm/vllm-openai-rocm:v0.22.0, vLLM version V0.22.0 DeepSeek-R1 Docker Image: lmsysorg/sglang-rocm:v0.5.13-rocm720-mi35x-20260612, SGLang version V0.5.13 Server manufacturers may vary configurations, yielding different results. Performance may vary based on configuration, software, vLLM version, and the use of the latest drivers and optimizations. (MI350-81) (MI350-82) Testing by AMD Performance Labs as of July 7, 2026, measuring the training performance in tokens per second (TPS) of AMD ROCm 7.0 software vs a preview version of AMD ROCm.ai (ROCm 7.2.2 with optimizations such as Optimized Kernels, Parallelism and Scheduling),) using Megatron -LM on a system with 8x AMD Instinct MI355x 8x GPUs GPU platform running DeepSeek-V2-Lite, DeepSeek-V3-16B, and Qwen3-30B-A3B models. Stated performance uplift is expressed as the combined average TPS over across the (3) models tested. Hardware Configuration Supermicro AS -4126GS-NMR-LCC (board H14DSG-OD) 8x AMD Instinct MI355. BIOS AMI v1.4a (2025-04-16), GPU firmware SMC 04.86.11.02, TA RAS 27.69.00.10, TA XGMI 32.00.00.20, RLC 43, MEC 36, SDMA 12, Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS, kernel 5.15.0-70-generic, amdgpu driver 6.16.6, HOST ROCm 7.1.0 Software Configuration(s) DeepSeek-V2-Lite, ROCm 7.2.1 + Primus v26.3 DeepSeek-V3-16B, ROCm 7.2.1 + Primus v26.3 Qwen3-30B-A3B, ROCm 7.2.1 + Primus v26.3 Server manufacturers may vary configurations, yielding different results. Performance may vary based on configuration, software, and the use of the latest drivers and optimizations. (MI350-82) Topics Software Artificial Intelligence #rocm #epyc #instinct Share / cite Copy URL Copy citation Copy text Press inquiries: corporate.pressinquiry@amd.com More from this category Software July 23, 2026 AAI 2026: AMD ROCm.AI Accelerates AI Development Across AMD Platforms New AI-native developer experience enables the use of natural language and leading AI coding assistants to install, deploy, troubleshoot and optimize AI workloads on AMD platforms. Software June 11, 2025 ↗ Enabling the Future of AI: Introducing AMD ROCm 7 and AMD Developer Cloud About AMD AMD (NASDAQ: AMD) drives innovation in high-performance and AI computing to solve the world’s most important challenges. Today, AMD technology powers billions of experiences across cloud and AI infrastructure, embedded systems, AI PCs and gaming. With a broad portfolio of AI-optimized CPUs, GPUs, networking and software, AMD delivers full-stack AI solutions that provide the performance and scalability needed for a new era of intelligent computing. Learn more at www.amd.com .