Claude Fable 5.1 now available on AI Gateway - Vercel Skip to content Copy Wordmark Copy Logo Download Brand Assets Brand Guidelines Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ask AI Dashboard Products Agent Stack AI SDK AI Gateway Sandbox Passport Connect eve Core Platform Security Content Delivery Fluid Compute Observability Workflows CI/CD Tools Next.js Vercel Agent Vercel Plugin Open Source Domains ↗ v0 ↗ Resources Learn Docs About Blog Changelog Knowledge Base Build AI Apps Web Apps Marketing Sites Platforms Commerce Explore Customers Marketplace Partner Finder AWS Community ↗ Enterprise Pricing Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Claude Fable 5.1 now available on AI Gateway Rohan Taneja , Jerilyn Zheng Blog Changelog 1 Sep 2026 2 min read Copy Claude Fable 5.1 from Anthropic is now available on AI Gateway. Fable 5.1 improvements compared to previous Claude models are concentrated in long, multi-stage work like agentic coding, knowledge work, and research that takes several rounds of searching and following up. Anthropic ships Fable 5.1 with cybersecurity and biology safety classifiers enabled. Finding vulnerabilities in source code is allowed, but some routine coding and debugging may still be refused. To ensure requests are still serviced when the safety classifiers are triggered, use model fallbacks . Add a models array to providerOptions.gateway listing the models to try. AI Gateway sends the request to Fable 5.1 first, and if Anthropic refuses it, works down the array in order and returns the response from the first model that succeeds: API API Claude Code Hermes API API Claude Code Claude Code Hermes Hermes 1 import { streamText } from 'ai' ; 2 3 const result = streamText ( { 4 model : 'anthropic/claude-fable-5.1' , 5 prompt : 'Summarize this quarterly report and list the key risks.' , 6 providerOptions : { 7 gateway : { 8 models : [ 'anthropic/claude-opus-5' , 'anthropic/claude-sonnet-5' ] , 9 } , 10 } , 11 } ) ; Copy for agent View model details ↗ This request falls back to Opus 5, then Sonnet 5, if a safety classifier is triggered. The same models option works on every AI Gateway API format, including Chat Completions, Messages, and OpenAI Responses. Try Fable 5.1 in the model playground . To use it in a coding agent, see the coding agents guide , then run vercel ai-gateway coding-agents setup to connect agents like Claude Code, Codex, OpenCode, Cursor, Pi, and more and select anthropic/claude-fable-5.1 inside the agent. Anthropic does not support Zero Data Retention for Fable 5.1. Prompts and completions are retained for 30 days and are not used to train Claude. You can view all language models available on AI Gateway. Loading status… Select a display theme: system light dark