Muse Image now available on AI Gateway - Vercel Skip to content Copy Wordmark Copy Logo Download Brand Assets Brand Guidelines Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ask AI Dashboard Products Agent Stack AI SDK AI Gateway Sandbox Passport Connect eve Core Platform Security Content Delivery Fluid Compute Observability Workflows CI/CD Tools Next.js Vercel Agent Vercel Plugin Open Source Domains ↗ v0 ↗ Resources Learn Docs About Blog Changelog Knowledge Base Build AI Apps Web Apps Marketing Sites Platforms Commerce Explore Customers Marketplace Partner Finder AWS Community ↗ Enterprise Pricing Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Muse Image now available on AI Gateway Josh Lipman , Zachary Chen , Jerilyn Zheng Blog Changelog 26 Aug 2026 1 min read Copy Muse Image from Meta Superintelligence Labs is now available on AI Gateway. It is their first image model and a separate family from Muse Spark, returning images rather than text. Send a prompt and get an image back, or send an image with an instruction and get it changed. One model does both, so you don't switch models to move from generating to editing. To use Muse Image, set model to meta/muse-image-1.0 and call generateImage from the AI SDK : 1 import { generateImage } from 'ai' ; 2 3 const { images } = await generateImage ( { 4 model : 'meta/muse-image-1.0' , 5 prompt : 'A conference poster for a talk on database indexes.' , 6 } ) ; To steer the result toward art you already have, pass reference images in prompt.images alongside the text, and the model blends them into what it draws. Copy link to heading Editing Pass the image you want changed in prompt.images with an instruction, and the model changes what you asked for and leaves the rest: 1 import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs' ; 2 import { generateImage } from 'ai' ; 3 4 const { images } = await generateImage ( { 5 model : 'meta/muse-image-1.0' , 6 prompt : { 7 text : 'Move the date to the bottom right and make it larger.' , 8 images : [ readFileSync ( './poster.png' ) ] , 9 } , 10 } ) ; Try Muse Image in the model playground . AI Gateway provides a unified API for calling models, tracking usage and cost, failover, and performance optimizations for higher-than-provider uptime. It includes built-in custom reporting , budgets for API keys , routing rules , and more. AI Gateway reflects provider pricing with no markup and does not charge a platform fee on inference, including on Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) requests. You can view all image models available on AI Gateway. Loading status… Select a display theme: system light dark