Arena Academic Partnerships Program First Cohort - Arena.ai Skip to main content. Menu Menu Back to All Articles Arena Team Published on 1 Sept 2026 Last updated on 1 Sept 2026 Reading Time: 2 minutes Announcing the First Cohort of Arena's Academic Partnerships Program We're glad to introduce the first cohort of researchers supported through the Arena Academic Partnerships program. As we shared in our earlier post introducing the Arena Academic Partnerships Program , Arena's mission is to measure and advance the frontier of AI through open, rigorous, and community-driven evaluation. Independent academic research is central to that mission, and today we're glad to introduce the first cohort of researchers supported through the program. Congratulations to the first seven Arena Academic Fellows for Spring 2026: Emmanuel Candès , Stanford University Statistically Efficient LLM Evaluation and Ranking with Pairwise Human Preference Data Haifeng Xu , University of Chicago Towards a Principled Evaluation of LLMs’ Predictive Intelligence Lihua Lei, Stanford University Is Bradley–Terry Enough? Heterogeneous Preference Modeling for RLHF Negin Golrezaei , Massachusetts Institute of Technology Causal inference framework for multi-turn AI evaluation. Ramesh Raskar , Massachusetts Institute of Technology Toward Adaptive, Task-Conditional Evaluation for AI Agents Steven Wu and Andrew Ilyas , Carnegie Mellon University Goodhart’s Law on the Leaderboard: Can Cheap Preference Optimization Game Arena? Tal Linzen , New York University A Rigorous Evaluation of Meta-Cognitive Monitoring in LLMs We look forward to seeing this work take shape and to sharing updates as it progresses. The Academic Partnerships Program will continue on an ongoing basis, with a call for proposals happening twice a year, each Spring and Fall. Learn more about how to submit a proposal for the Fall 2026 cohort here. Share this Article LinkedIn X Copy Link Related Articles Read Article Call for Proposals: Arena's Academic Partnerships Program, Fall 2026 Arena's Academic Partnerships Program opens a call for research proposals twice a year, every Spring and Fall. We're excited to open the Fall 2026 cycle today, with submissions due October 30, 2026. Arena Team — 1 Sept 2026 Read Article Coding in Agent Mode: From Idea to Shipping with GitHub AI coding assistants have fundamentally changed how code is created. But for most developers, a chat interface has been a "read-only" or "copy-paste" coding experience — until now. Product Arena Team — 24 Aug 2026 Read Article Agent Leaderboard Improvements: Categories & Task Cost Agents are being asked to do a wide variety of work. This means a single, performance-only agentic leaderboard is no longer sufficient. Two questions decide which model to use: what’s best for my specific kind of task, and what will it cost to get that task done? We aim to help answer these questions with our latest update to Agent Arena. Product Arena Team — 14 Aug 2026 Read Article Introducing AutoEval to the Arena leaderboards At Arena, our evaluations are dynamic and grounded in real-world use. But real-world signals take time to collect. Today, we’re introducing AutoEval scores to provide immediate, calibrated model ratings on real tasks when waiting for human votes to accumulate. Product Arena Team — 30 Jul 2026 Read Article Factuality in the Arena Factuality remains one of the most persistent questions users face when using AI models. Today, we are launching a leaderboard that ranks models not only by human preference, but also by the factual accuracy of their responses. Research Product Arena Team — 14 Jul 2026 Read Article Build, Deploy, and Evaluate with Fullstack Code Arena Code Arena has evolved beyond frontend prototyping into a complete fullstack AI development platform. Explore capabilities like databases, authentication, third-party integrations, and deployments, and see how Fullstack Code Arena helps developers, entrepreneurs, and AI labs build, deploy, and evaluate production-ready applications. Product Arena Team — 2 Jul 2026 Read Article Arena Reaches $100M in 8 Months Arena achieves $100M annualized run rate in eight months, driven by 10M+ monthly users who have contributed 700M+ conversations and 82M+ votes to build the world's largest human-preference dataset for AI evaluation. News Anastasios Angelopoulos — 29 Jun 2026 Read Article Agent Arena: Causal Evaluation of Agents in the Real World Agents are increasingly doing real work. The resulting task distribution has greatly expanded. We desire an agent evaluation that scales along with usage and capability. Product Research Arena Team — 4 Jun 2026 Read Article Empowering Users to Get More Done With Agent Mode The future of AI is not single-modality chat; it is in powerful agentic capabilities. Today, we are excited to introduce Agent Mode, designed to help everyone from everyday users looking to get more done to entrepreneurs looking to maximize agentic efficacy across complex use cases. Product Arena Team — 4 Jun 2026 See All Articles Subscribe to Arena news and research Insights at the frontier of AI. Subscribe Invalid email address