Ling 3.0 Flash Sante is now available on AI Gateway for free - Vercel Skip to content Copy Wordmark Copy Logo Download Brand Assets Brand Guidelines Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ask AI Dashboard Products Agent Stack AI SDK AI Gateway Sandbox Passport Connect eve Core Platform Security Content Delivery Fluid Compute Observability Workflows CI/CD Tools Next.js Vercel Agent Vercel Plugin Open Source Domains ↗ v0 ↗ Resources Learn Docs About Blog Changelog Knowledge Base Build AI Apps Web Apps Marketing Sites Platforms Commerce Explore Customers Marketplace Partner Finder AWS Community ↗ Enterprise Pricing Get a Demo Log In Sign Up Ling 3.0 Flash Sante is now available on AI Gateway for free Zachary Chen , Jerilyn Zheng Blog Changelog 4 Sep 2026 2 min read Copy Ling 3.0 Flash Sante from inclusionAI is now available on AI Gateway, free to use through October 4. Ling 3.0 Flash Sante is a health and medicine-focused version of Ling 3.0 Flash . It is a Mixture-of-Experts model with 124B total parameters and about 5.1B active per token, a 256K token context window, and function calling. The model is built for medical reasoning, professional healthcare tasks, deep research, evidence-based retrieval, and multi-step medical workflows. It retains the base model's general reasoning, coding, and agentic capabilities. Copy link to heading How to use the model during the free period The standard model ID, inclusionai/ling-3.0-flash-sante , is free through October 4 and begins billing when the offer ends. The free model ID, inclusionai/ling-3.0-flash-sante-free , stops serving when the offer ends instead of billing. Free requests still appear in your spend dashboard and carry a trace, they just cost nothing. To use Ling 3.0 Flash Sante, set model in the AI SDK : API API Claude Code Codex Hermes Chat Completions API API Claude Code Claude Code Codex Codex Hermes Hermes Chat Completions Chat Completions 1 import { streamText } from 'ai' ; 2 3 const result = streamText ( { 4 model : 'inclusionai/ling-3.0-flash-sante' , 5 prompt : 'Compare the evidence in these abstracts and identify where they disagree.' , 6 } ) ; Copy for agent View model details ↗ Use inclusionai/ling-3.0-flash-sante-free if you want the model to stop serving when the offer ends rather than start billing. To use it in a coding agent, see the coding agents guide , then run vercel ai-gateway coding-agents setup to connect Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, and more, then select inclusionai/ling-3.0-flash-sante in the agent. Try Ling 3.0 Flash Sante in the model playground , or open the free model page . AI Gateway provides a unified API for calling models, tracking usage and cost, and configuring retries, failover, and performance optimizations for higher-than-provider uptime. It includes built-in custom reporting , Zero Data Retention support , budgets for API keys , routing rules , and more. AI Gateway reflects provider pricing with no markup and does not charge a platform fee on inference, including on Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) requests. You can view all language models available on AI Gateway. Loading status… Select a display theme: system light dark